# demo1920gpd
Reporistory di prova dell'esercitazione dell' 11/03
bruh


Michael Stonebraker  
United States – 2014

Michael Stonebraker’s contributions to the refinement and spread of database management technology are hard to overstate. He began work in this area as a young assistant professor at the University of California—Berkeley. After reading Edgar F. Codd’s seminal papers on the relational model, Stonebraker started work with a colleague, Eugene Wong, to develop an efficient and practical implementation. The result was INGRES, a name that reflected the project’s original intention to produce a geographically-oriented system with graphical capabilities. This officially stood for “Interactive Graphic and Retrieval System” but echoed the name of a celebrated French painter.
A prototype of INGRES was working by 1974, but the project did not stop there. Over the next decade INGRES, and systems inspired by it, built a new commercial market of relational database systems. Today the relational database management system is one of computing’s most important and widely used technologies, having replaced filing cabinets as the standard way of storing and retrieving information.
Development of INGRES
Stonebraker led development of INGRES at Berkeley until 1985, supported by grant money and the labor of graduate and undergraduate students. Berkeley was particularly notable during this era as a place where theoretical research and system building came together with spectacular results. Further examples included the work on timesharing systems by Butler Lampson (winner 1992) and others and the Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) of the Unix operating system, which gave rise to a commonly used form of open source licensing. These cultures and practices anticipated much of what we now associate with the open source software movement. Stonebraker remembers that “we would recruit the smartest freshmen and sophomores we could find, give them wonderful equipment, and they would basically die writing code for us.”
Stonebraker’s work built on, and complemented, that of three other Turing award winners. Academic research into database management technology has had an unusually direct connection to the widely used industrial-strength systems underlying the websites, business applications, scientific breakthroughs, social media systems, and “big data” projects of the modern world. Charles W. Bachman (winner 1973) designed what is often called the first database management system in the early 1960s, and helped to define and popularize the concept of a database management system through his later work with the industry group CODASYL. Edgar F. Codd (winner 1981) developed an elegant and flexible way of storing and retrieving data, the relational model, which gradually eclipsed the network data model over the course of the 1980s. James Nicholas Gray (winner 1988) contributed to IBM’s System R, an influential experimental implementation of the relational model, and later pioneered robust, high performance methods for record locking and transaction processing.
Legacy of INGRES
INGRES and System R together helped to turn relational systems from a laboratory curiosity into the default choice for even the most demanding data processing applications. While the IBM prototype targeted the company’s multi-million dollar mainframes, INGRES was a Unix application suitable for relatively affordable minicomputers and was widely distributed to other universities where people used it, experimented with it, and extensively modified it.
INGRES brought a new kind of database technology to a new kind of computer. Database management systems were widely adopted by businesses from the early 1970s onwards as central hubs which managed the data used by many different application programs. These early commercial systems ran on mainframes and followed either Bachman’s network model or a more restrictive hierarchical approach favored by IBM. In the mainframe world these approaches remained dominant throughout the 1980s so that, for example, IBM first commercialized its work in the area as a niche product for “decision support” analytical applications rather than workaday operational systems.
During the 1970s, minicomputers became a cost-effective alternative to mainframes for an ever widening range of applications. Thanks to INGRES and its derivatives, relational technology became the default choice for minicomputer databases, as the new technology was widely applied to transaction processing applications (keeping routine records of things like address changes or account updates) as well as analytical work. The commercial database systems of the 1970s required their users to navigate through data structures at a relatively low level, making explicit decisions about how to index and link records when the database was created and navigating record by record through these structures when retrieving information. Relational database systems shifted to a more abstract and flexible view of data. Only when querying the database did users specify how data from different tables should be combined. This shifted much of the responsibility for efficiently organizing and retrieving data from the user to the database management software, pushing hard against the limits of affordable hardware.

Postgres
By this point Stonebraker was already immersed in the development and commercialization of a successor system. Postgres added many features missing from existing relational systems, including support for rules to maintain consistent relationships between tables, support for complex “object-relational” data types, the replication of data across servers, and procedural languages to embed code fragments within the database management system to be triggered when specified conditions occured. Postgres was also used to experiment with other features of interest to database researchers. Techniques pioneered in Postgres were widely implemented, and in 1992 Stonebraker cofounded Illustra Information Technologies to market a commercial version. It was acquired in 1997 by Informix, which rebuilt its product line around the code.
"non dire gatto se non ce l'hai nel sacco"
"provaCambiamento"
